I'm using this as a place to put machine learning algorithms that I've reimplemented myself for a combination of fun and education.

# Organization

Each algorithm has its own folder and inside there is generally one file for the model, one to load data, and one to train the model. If there is a subfolder `data` included, then that means that you can run the train file and expect the algorithm to run as anticipated.

Where possible, I do try to include the algorithms final output as well. This might be a graph of training error, or groups generated by a topic model, etc. In general, preprocessing was generally limited to subtracting column means and normalization along columns.

# Data

Some of these were done independently, and thus the data was probably pulled from the UCI database or some comparable open-source platform. Some of these were done with the dual purpose of being used for my university classwork. In that case, often there is no `data` subfolder for an algorithm, and/or the model training file is missing. That's probably because I wasn't comfortable putting it in there because of uncertainty in who owns tge data or because I thought including the whole solution would be a breach of academic integrity (again, mostly only a concern for algorithms that were implemented to serve the dual purpose as sufficing for my university coursework).

# Algorithms Implemented

### Support Vector Machines (svm)

I implemented a support vector machine utilizing the radial basis function (RBF) kernel to separate wine's based on their chemical composition and detect the type of wine given an unkown datapoint.

### Gaussian Mixture Model (for clustering and also used as a Bayes' Classifier)

Used emails as a bag of words model to cluster emails according to whether or nothey contained spam and then classified new emails into the "spam" or "not spam" cluster using a Bayes' classifier.

### Non-negative matrix factorization for reccomendation systems

Makes movie reccomendations based on a non-negative matrix factorization of a sparse user-rating matrix.

### Matrix Factorization for text topic modeling

Used New York Times articles as a bag of words model and generates a distribution on words across all articles and a distribution on topics for each article. The data is in the form of an input matrix with word index on columns and the articles on rows.

### First Order Markov Chain

Ranked college football teams based on the outcomes and scores of the games in the season. It leverages the convenient interpretation of the data that allows us to rank them using a first-order markov chain despite the data not being used in a strictly sequential manner.

### Linear Regression
